---
layout: post 
title:  "SP21 - Blog 2 - How DNS Works"
date:   2021-03-03 18:34:18 -0700
categories: blog
---

While working on our senior design project, one of the tasks that came up is to register a domain for our web app. It sparked my interest on learning how domain system works in a more thorough way. Thus, this article will explain in detail how DNS (Domain Name Server) works and how it serves as an advanced phonebook for internet users, leading them to wherever they want on the world wide web.

1. When you type an url to the address bar in a browse, for instance example.com, the browser will send the request containing the url to the **DNS recursive resolver**.

```

    DNS recursive resolver: a server that's responsible for accepting the DNS query and knowing how to deal with it, finding the answer to the query by either looking through the cache or sending request to other DNS servers until it reaches the one with an approriate answer.


```
 
2. The DNS recursive resolver will then ask a **DNS root nameserver** information about the top level domain (TLD) of the url. In our case, it should be *.com*.


```

    DNS root server: servers that hold information about the TLD (.com, .org, etc.)


```

3. After receiving the address of the TLD from root server, the resolver will forward the request to the **TLD server**. In our case, it is the .com TLD. 

```

    Top Level Domain (TLD) Server: servers that have the IP address of every domain that contains its TLD name. 


```

4. The TLD Server will respond to the quest with the IP address of the inquired hostname. Thus, we have translated the domain name (example.com) to a valid IP address (xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx) computer can reach through the internet

5. After acquiring the IP address, the resolver will respond back to the browser with it. Then the browser just needs to send a HTTP request to the server with said IP. 


And that is the entire process of how you can reach any website just by typing its hostname into your browser. Happy surfing!